Today we're going to introduce
the topic of language modeling,
one of the most important topics
in natural language processing.
The goal of language modeling is to
assign a probability to a sentence.
Why would we want to assign
a probability to a sentence?
This comes up in all
sorts of applications.
In machine translation, for example, we'd
like to be able to distinguish between
good and
bad translations by their probability.
So, high winds tonight might be a better
translation than large winds tonight,
because high and winds go together well.
In spelling correction, we see a phrase
like fifteeen minuets from my house.
That's more likely to be a mistake for
minutes.
And one piece of information that
let's us decide that is that
fifteen minutes from is a much more
likely phrase than fifteen minuets from.
And in speech recognition, a phrase like,
I saw a van, is much more likely than
a phrase that sounds phonetically similar,
eyes awe of an.
But it's much less likely to
have that sequence of words.
And it turns out language modelings
play a role in summarization and
question-answering, really everywhere.
So, the goal of a language model is to
compute the probability of a sentence or
a sequence of words.
So, given some sequence of words,
w1 through wn,
we're going to compute their probability,
P(W).
And we'll use capital W to
mean a sequence from w1 to wn.
Now this is related to the task
of computing the probability of
an upcoming word.
So, P(w5), given w1 through w4,
is very related to the task of
computing P(w1, w2, w3, w4, w5).
A model that computes either of these
things, either P(W), meaning a string,
the joint probability of the whole string,
or the conditional probability of the last
word given the previous words, either of
those, we call that a language model.
Now, it might have been better
to call this the grammar.
I mean technically what this is,
is telling us something about how good
these words fit together and we'd normally
use the word grammar for that, but
it turns out that the word language model,
and often, we'll see the acronym LM,
is more standard, so
we're going to go with that.
So, how are we going to compute
this joint probability?
We want to compute, let's say the
probability of the phrase, its water is so
transparent that,
this little part of a sentence.
And the intuition for how language
modeling works is that we are going to
rely on the chain rule of probability.
And just to remind you about
the chain rule of probability,
let's think about the definition
of conditional probability.
So P of A given B,
equals P(A,B), over P(B),
and we can rewrite that,
so P of A given B,
times P(B), equals P(A,B), or
turning it around, P of (A,
B) equals P of A given B,
make sure that's a given, times P(B), and
then we can generalize
this to more variables so
that the joint probability
of a whole sequence,
A, B, C, D, is the probability of A,
times B given A,
times C condition on A and
B, times D condition A, B, C.
So this is the chain rule, and
a more general form of the chain rule,
we have here, the probability of any
joint probability of any sequence
of intervals is the first times
the conditional, the second and
the first times a third condition,
the first two,
up until the last condition on the first,
and minus one.
All right, the chain rule.
So now the chain rule can be applied
to compute the joint probability of
words in a sentence.
So let's suppose we have our phrase,
its water is so transparent,
by the chain rule, the probability of
that sequence is the probability of its,
times the probability of water given its,
times the probability of is given its
water, times the probability of so
given its water is, and finally,
times the probability of
transparent given its water is so.
Or, more formally, the probability of,
the joint probability of a sequence
of words is the product over all i,
of the probability of each word,
times the prefix up until that word.
How are we going to estimate
these probabilities?
Could we just count and divide?
We often compute probabilities
by counting and dividing.
So, the probability of the given
its water is so transparent that,
we could just count how many times its
water is so transparent that the occurs,
and divide by the number of times
its water is so transparent occurs.
So, we could divide this by this,
and get a probability.
We can't do that, and the reason
we can't do that is there's just
far too many possible sentences for
us to ever estimate these.
There's no way we could get enough
data to see the counts of all possible
sentences of English.
So what we do instead is we apply
a simplifying assumption called
the Markov assumption, named for
Andrei Markov, and the Markov assumption
suggests that we estimate the probability
of the given its water is so
transparent that just by computing instead
the probability the given the word that.
Or, the very last, that meaning
the last word in the sequence.
Or maybe, we compute the probability
of the given its water is so
transparent that,
given just the last two words.
So, the given transparent that.
So, that's the Markov assumption.
Let's just look at the previous, or
maybe the couple previous words,
rather than the entire context.
More formally, the Markov assumption says
the probability of a sequence of words
is the product for each word of
the conditional probability of that word
given some prefix of the last few words.
So, in other words,
in the chain rule product of all the
probabilities we're multiplying together,
we estimate the probability of wi,
given the entire prefix from 1 to i-1,
by a simpler to compute probability,
wi, given just the last few words.
The simplest case of a Markov
model is called the Unigram model.
In the Unigram model, we simply estimate
the probability of a whole sequence of
words by the product of probabilities
of individual words, unigrams.
And if we generated sentences
by randomly picking words,
you can see that it would
look like word salad.
So here's some automatically generated
sentence, generated by Dan Kline,
and you can see that, with the word fifth,
the word an, the word of,
this doesn't look like a sentence at,
it's just a random sequencing of words.
Thrift, did, eighty, said.
That's the properties of a Unigram model.
Words are independent, in this model.
Slightly more intelligent
is a Bigram model,
where we condition on
a single previous word.
So again, we estimate the probability
of a word, given the entire prefix
from the beginning to the previous word,
just by the previous word.
So now if we use that and generate
random sentences from a Bigram model,
the sentences look a little
bit more like English.
Still, something's wrong with them,
clearly.
Outside, new car, well,
new car looks pretty good.
Car parking is pretty good,
parking lot, but together,
outside new car parking lot of
the agreement reached, that's not English.
So even the Bigram model, by giving up
these conditioning that English has,
we're simplifying the ability of the model
to model what's going on in any language.
Now we can extend the N-gram model further
to trigrams, that's 3-grams, or 4-grams,
or 5-grams, but in general, it's clear
that N-gram modeling is an insufficient
model of language, and the reason is that
language has long distance dependencies.
So if I want to say,
predict, the computer,
which I had just put into the machine room
on the fifth floor, and I hadn't seen this
next word, and I want to say,
what's my likelihood of the next word?
And I condition it just in
the previous word, floor.
I'd be very unlikely to guess crashed.
But, really, crashed is the main
verb of the sentence, and
computer is the subject,
the head of the subject noun phrase.
So, if we knew computer was the subject,
we're much more likely to guess crashed.
So, these kind of long distance
dependencies mean that in the limit,
a really good model of
predicting English words,
we'll have to take into account
lots of long distance information.
But it turns out that in practice, we can
often get away with these N-gram models,
because the local information, especially
as we get up to trigrams and 4-grams,
will turn out to be just constraining
enough that in most cases,
it'll solve our problems for us.